Israel's military says it now has
operational control of the gazen side of
the Rafa Crossing it has released these
images claiming to show armored vehicles
in Rafa Israel's push into the area
comes as as as an Israeli delegation
heads to Egypt for more talks on a
ceasefire proposal Hamas which carried
out the October the 7th Terror attacks
had already accepted the terms of the
truth but Israel says negotiations need
to continue
DW correspondent Rebecca rers is in
Jerusalem and she told us more about
what is happening in Rafa right
now well Anya we saw air strikes picking
up uh on Sunday night over Sunday night
and into Monday yesterday after a Hamas
strike on the kamam Shalom Crossing we
saw uh pretty significant targeted
strikes pick up and there were fears
that this were they were signs of an
imminent ground Invasion as had been
been being threatened and then last
night uh we did in fact get confirmation
or this morning I should say we had
confirmation that uh there is now
currently a targeted ground operation
taking place in that southern city of
Rafa we know we've even seen uh IDF
released uh footage of tanks on the
gazen side of that Raaz uh Gaza the
gazen side of that Rafa Crossing excuse
me uh and uh we just I just spoke to I
was just on an call with the Israeli
military they were briefing the media
they were at pains to say that this at
the moment at least is a precise and
limited uh attack based on intelligence
and that it was targeting specific areas
in that Eastern Rafer area that they
were sweeping that area that there was a
special ops team sweeping the area that
they were looking for the what the the
intelligence says is Hamas operatives
operating from within that area and
that's what they say they you know was
an indication when that strike came to
that Kum Shalom area on Sunday night
that it came from that area and that
particularly the area they're targeting
we know yesterday they gave about
100,000 people in that area evacuation
orders to move towards uh a so-called
humanitarian safe Zone closer to KH
Yunis a little bit further north in the
Gaza Strip though we know that for
Palestinians who've been dealing with
this now for seven months uh there is
nowhere safe to go and that even some
safe areas have been targeted in the
past we don't know much more about the
operation and how it will continue
whether it will widen or how it will
widen but we have seen that in other
cities in Gaza that it starts off in a
limited uh way and then and then spreads
out but we don't have any more
information this is an ongoing
operation is reporting there from
Jerusalem now as that Israel operation
inside Rafa unfolds negotiations are
expected to get underway in Egypt on a
proposed ceasefire deal Israel says a
plan put forward by Qatari and Egyptian
mediators doesn't meet its demands Hamas
had earlier agreed to the draft deal a
small step towards possible peace that
triggered celebrations inside the Gaza
Strip a rare sight of Joy after 7 months
of
War Palestinians across Gaza celebrating
in the streets as news reaches them that
Hamas has agreed to a proposed
ceasefire I haven't seen my children for
seven months when I heard Hamas accepted
a proposal I was very happy as we want
to return to Gaza
City we have no homes left but we are
ready to sleep on the
rubble it was gloomy this morning and
the situation was terrifying honestly
but now it's better and we hope for the
best over the Border in Israel the
families of hostages still helding Gaza
also hope for a ceasefire they marched
outside the House of Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu demanding he also
accept a
deal for sure after Hamas told that he
accept the deal we should say yes let's
sit and talk and uh do anything we can
do to bring the hostages home we call
our government to accept this
netanyahu's office says a delegation is
returning to Cairo for further talks but
has so far rejected the proposal saying
it does not meet Israel's
demands soon after Hamas accepted the
deal the Israeli War cabinet voted to
push ahead with a military operation in
Rafa in southern
Gaza Israel has told 100,000
Palestinians there to evacuate in the
biggest sign yet of an imminent ground
Invasion they've been told to move to
alasi a so-called humanitarian Zone with
little in the way of infrastructure
Israel says it has expanded the zone to
accommodate the new wave of
arrivals Israel's allies have been
warning against a military escalation in
Rafa where more than 1 million gazin
have sought
shelter the fear now that a ceasefire
won't be reached in time to stop any
further military action and the
inevitable cost to civilians trapped in
southern Gaza
and we can get some analysis from Daniel
gak a Middle East expert and the Editor
in Chief of zenith magazine he's joining
us now from Riad welcome to you Daniel H
given everything that is going on
morning what do you think is likely to
happen now with the ceasefire talks what
can we
expect well I think this is really the
last chance with the current setup of
negotiators to reach a deal and I think
everybody knows this and we can see
there has been some some conflicting and
contradicting information about the
status about the quality of the proposal
and who agreed to it or not um but the
fact that the Israeli government is
sending at the same time while they are
uh conducting strikes in Rafa a
delegation to Cairo to negotiate this
deal shows that it's very difficult for
Netanyahu to get out of this proposal um
yet last night there was some reports
about Hamas agreeing to a to a ceasefire
deal that Israel had not agreed to and
that was not enough for Israel but at
the same time it's quite difficult to
imagine that uh the CIA director Bill
Burns who has spent some time now in the
Middle East in Qatar and in in Egypt who
and who is responsible for negotiating
this deal made a mistake or unclear
communication with the Israelis so I
think everyone knows what it comes down
to it's the question if Israel is is
able and willing to accept in exchange
for the hostages a permanent ceasefire
whatever they may call it and I think
that's the target of the negotiators and
that's why Netanyahu is hesitant to
agree to because if he if he agrees to a
permanent ceasefire and he calls it a
permanent ceasefire then he would not
reach his goal to uh to eliminate Hamas
and he would not satisfy his Coalition
partners and he would probably have to
step down as a prime minister of Israel
okay now Israel is talking about core
demands though isn't it it says the
terms of the deal are unacceptable they
don't meet their core demands so so so
what what are these core demands what is
it that Israel is specifically referring
to
there well I don't know yet because I
don't know the documents but my
understanding of it is that the
negotiators were trying to to let's say
disguise this idea of a permanent
ceasefire into a plan of phasing the
deal uh three phases of six weeks of
ceasefire which would then of course
impede any further military operation
because a political process would be on
the way whereas Israel is insisting on
the netan government is insisting on its
right to to to achieve both goals which
is the liberation of the hostages but
also have the prerogative of if
intervening militarily in the Gaza Strip
and targeting Hamas and of course the
Hamas leadership knows that for them the
hostages are the only way they can still
they can protect literally their lives
and that's the only leverage they have
so they would of course not agree to
that and it seems that some sort of a
permanent
setup of a permanent ceasefire mechanism
is now underway with the negotiators and
since the negotiators I don't think
they've made a mistake or have not
clearly communicated this to either side
I think also it's a tactical move by
Hamas to to come out and say yes we
agree to this because they wanted to
make sure this happens before the uh
military operation in Rafa escalates but
at the same time I think um that the
negotiators wanted this time to preempt
Israel uh in particular the netan
government to to as they say sabotage
the deal because uh we've heard from the
negotiators before that they were quite
uh quite discontent about every time
they were coming close to a deal it was
sabotaged by either side and it seems
that this uh negotiating strategy tried
to preempt such a an act of sabotage if
we could just come back to the issue of
the hostages I mean if if Netanyahu
agreed to a deal to bring some hostages
back I mean this would surely help him
regain some Trust among the Israeli
public how important would that be for
him I think it is immensely important
for Israel to bring back hostages
because you remember it was the first
commitment and uh in the beginning his
uh his like Daredevil strategy to apply
full military pressure to go in with a
full-blown military campaign and at the
same time negotiate the release of the
hostages worked astonishingly many
people were skeptical about it because
of course these goals are actually not
really complimentary they are they
contradict each other but of course when
it comes to the end game and when Hamas
has only like these hostages left and is
the only way for Hamas to get out of
this mess uh then of course you see that
these goals run into each other and they
become much more complicated and on the
other hand many people in Israel uh
believe that Netanyahu tried to prolong
this crisis in order to stay in power as
long as possible and the hostages were
not his priority and I think he could
not really debunk this I think he still
many people believe that his political
future is much more important than the
release of the hostages and I'm not so
sure if if when he gets a significant
number of hostages released uh that the
Israeli public will come down and say uh
this is now netanyahu's success I think
the question will come of why didn't he
uh negotiate this earlier why didn't we
get more people home and and what
happened to those who who who died in
custody in Hamas custody whereas they
could have been surviving and could be
with us today Daniel GAA Middle East
expert and editor and chief of zenith
magazine Daniel thank you so much for
your
analysis thank you